# Here is a list of prerequisit codes that must be entered before running camserver.py

## On the [Waveshare Website](https://www.waveshare.com/wiki/CM4-NANO-C)
there is a a list of code needed to enable the camera.
```
sudo apt-get install p7zip-full
wget https://files.waveshare.com/upload/4/41/CM4_dt_blob.7z
7z x CM4_dt_blob.7z -O./CM4_dt_blob
sudo chmod 777 -R CM4_dt_blob
cd CM4_dt_blob/
```
After that, you need to add code to the config.txt under the boot folder. This is under the root directory under boot/config.txt

Use ```cd .. ``` until you get to the $ directory and then use 
```
sudo nano boot/config.txt
```
From there, scroll down to the bottom where it says [all] and add the following,
```
dtoverlay=imx219,cam0
```
press controll+x then press Y then press enter. 
```
sudo reboot
```
Upon rebooting Your camera should now work using
```
libcamerahello -t 0
```
## Waveshare CM4-Nano-C Tuning File Code

The following code is necessary for the CM4-Nano-C waveshare base board because by default it uses the IRCAM tuning file when it should be using the NOIR tuning file. On the waveshare website, the path for where the tuning file is located is incorrect. The correct path is below.
```
cd usr/share/libcamera/ipa/rpi/vc4
sudo mv imx219.json imx219_ir.json
sudo mv imx219_noir.json imx219.json
```
## General Code for installing programs required by camserver.py

```
sudo apt update
```
### Install necessary programs with sudo

```
sudo apt install ffmpeg
sudo apt install python3 python3-pip
sudo apt install libcamera-tools
sudo apt-get install libopenblas-dev
```

### Descriptions
sudo apt install ffmpeg  # Needed for video file conversion.
sudo apt install python3 python3-pip  # Flask is used for the web server.
sudo apt install libcamera-tools # Needed for camera control on some Raspberry Pi models.
sudo apt-get install libopenblas-dev # Needed for Numpy to work right

### Install necessary python plugins

```
pip3 install picamera2 
pip3 install Flask
pip3 install Flask-RESTful
pip3 install Pillow
pip3 install watchdog
pip3 install bcrypt
```

### Descriptions
pip3 install picamera2  # For camera interface on Raspberry Pi.
pip3 install Flask  # Flask is used as the web framework.
pip3 install Flask-RESTful  # Flask extension for building REST APIs.
pip3 install Pillow  # For image manipulation capabilities.
pip3 install watchdog  # To monitor file system events.
pip3 install bcrypt  # Possibly for password hashing (if it appears you're managing user authentication).



### Folder Permissions
You will not be able to write photos and videos to the correct directories until you take ownership of the directories

```
sudo chmod u+rwx /home/cm4/cam/static/pictures/
sudo chmod u+rwx /home/cm4/cam/static/video/
sudo chmod -R 777 /home/cm4/cam/static/pictures/
sudo chmod -R 777 /home/cm4/cam/static/video/
```


# Email Notification Integration

You will need to add your gmail address to use googles existing smtp servers to send notifications whenever motion is detected

You will also need to add a app password to allow access to your gmail from within the app. 

[Login](https://myaccount.google.com/apppasswords) to google here and add a name you would like for your app and then copy and save your autogenerated 16 digit code. Put that code in the designated spot in the Globals section under camserver.py
