# To install and run, do the following
I suggest enabling ssh and doing this remotely.
```
sudo apt-get install git
cd /home 
sudo git clone https://github.com/IcyG1045/CM4Cam.git
```

Then,

```
cd CM4Cam/camserver/
sudo python3 install_libraries.py
```

It will install all required libraries as well as set correct permissions to run the CM4Cam. After completing, 

# **THE PI WILL REBOOT**

Then do

```
sudo nano /boot/config.txt
```
Add your required tags to enable your camera. The CM4-Nano-C requires what's below. If you only need to enable camera autodetect, then disregard this step. If you need to add other code instead of what's required for the CM4-Nano-C, then replace your code where the CM4-Nano-C code should go. 

```
camera_auto_detect=0
```

### Place this under [all]
```
dtoverlay=imx219,cam0
```
Then do
```
sudo reboot
```

# To test whether or not your camera is detected enter this command. if your camera pops up then everything is good. if not thn something is wrong.

```
libcamera-hello --list-cameras
```

Then do

```
cd /home/CM4Cam/camserver
```
and run

```
sudo python3 camserver.py
```

# You will need to set your credentials under the *Globals* section of camserver.py

```
sudo nano camserver.py
```

# Email Notification Integration

You will need to add your gmail address to use googles existing smtp servers to send notifications whenever motion is detected.

You will also need to add a app password to allow access to your gmail from within the app. 

[Login](https://myaccount.google.com/apppasswords) to google here and add a name you would like for your app and then copy and save your autogenerated 16 digit code. Put that code in the designated spot in the Globals section under camserver.py


```
sudo nano camserver.py
```




















# Email Notification Integration

You will need to add your gmail address to use googles existing smtp servers to send notifications whenever motion is detected

You will also need to add a app password to allow access to your gmail from within the app. 

[Login](https://myaccount.google.com/apppasswords) to google here and add a name you would like for your app and then copy and save your autogenerated 16 digit code. Put that code in the designated spot in the Globals section under camserver.py
